⚡ vLLM for fast generation in GRPO (#2600)
huggingface/trl: docs/source/grpo_trainer.md

## Quick start

> This example demonstrates how to train a model using the GRPO method. We use the [Qwen 0.5B model](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-0.5B) as the base model. We use the prompts from the [TLDR dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-lib/tldr) (completion column is ingored!). You can view the data in the dataset here:

Reviewer: Would it be more natural to use an instruct model in the example?

Author: That's what we do, but the above text is wrong 

```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to train a model using the GRPO method. We use the [Qwen 0.5B Instruct model](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct) as the base model. We use the prompts from the [TLDR dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-lib/tldr) (completion column is ingored!). You can view the data in the dataset here:
```

> This example demonstrates how to train a model using the GRPO method. We use the [Qwen 0.5B Instruct model](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct) as the base model. We use the prompts from the [TLDR dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-lib/tldr) (completion column is ingored!). You can view the data in the dataset here:

Author: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to train a model using the GRPO method. We train the [Qwen 0.5B Instruct model](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct) and use the prompts from the [TLDR dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-lib/tldr) (completion column is ingored!). You can view the data in the dataset here:
```

![](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-lib/documentation-images/resolve/main/grpo_curves.png)

### vLLM based training

To use [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm) based training, set the `use_vllm` flag to `True` in the `GRPOConfig` class. You can also set the `vllm_device` and `vllm_gpu_memory_utilization` arguments to specify the device and GPU memory utilization for the VLLM server. 

The strategy here is to train on a number of gpus, and use a dedicated GPU for vllm generation while training on the rest. Thus for the 2 GPU example, you would set `vllm_device` to `cuda:1` and `vllm_gpu_memory_utilization` to `0.7`:

```python
training_args = GRPOConfig(
    ...,
    use_vllm=True,
    vllm_device="cuda:1",
    vllm_gpu_memory_utilization=0.7,
)
```

> and train the model as usual on the remaining GPUs via `--num_processes = number GPU allocated -1` e.g. for 2 GPUs:

Author: ```suggestion
and train the model as usual on the remaining GPUs via `--num_processes = <number GPU allocated -1>` e.g. for 2 GPUs:
```

### vLLM based training

> To use [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm) based training, set the `use_vllm` flag to `True` in the `GRPOConfig` class. You can also set the `vllm_device` and `vllm_gpu_memory_utilization` arguments to specify the device and GPU memory utilization for the VLLM server. 

Author: ```suggestion
To use [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm) based training, set the `use_vllm` flag to `True` in the [`GRPOConfig`] class. You can also set the `vllm_device` and `vllm_gpu_memory_utilization` arguments to specify the device and GPU memory utilization for the vLLM server. 
```

## Customization

## Speed up training with vLLM-powered generation  

> Generation is often a speed bottleneck in online methods. To accelerate generation, you can use [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm), a library that enables fast generation. To enable it, pass `use_vllm=True` in the training arguments.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generation is often the main bottleneck that makes training slow with online methods. To accelerate generation, you can use [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm), a library that enables fast generation. To enable it, pass `use_vllm=True` in the training arguments.  
```
